welcome to GUI any word in web browsers
for 11th September 2019 we'll be
discussing some things related to web
browsers I don't think there's anything
related to GUI but we'll shall see I
have a first agenda item so shall my
screen now but feel free to add your
items if you want to discuss something
so in the past week I've been mostly
focused on embedded J's ipfs in brave
but as a side project I started tribes
eating distributed Wikipedia project so
I think it's a pretty good idea to give
a short update on on the project so
distributed to keep in your mirror it's
a mirror of Wikipedia that's put on ipfs
and we've done this project few years
back and it was sort of put on autopilot
and we actually did not set up any
compassion or scheduled any checkpoints
for updating the content and we are in
2019 and we still got like English
Wikipedia snapshot from 2017 like work
does not change that much but the latest
views are not there and some I just did
not receive updates this also translates
to problems are for public gateway
operators when they get DMCA requests
for takedowns of specific Wikipedia
pages in all the versions all the heavy
stuff so I started looking how we were
generating those mirrors and
what are possible paths for going
forward so a quick background on how we
were generating those mirrors is that
there are snapshots of Wikipedia created
in as in format zine format is like one
huge file created specifically for
offline browsing of wiki wiki not on the
Wikipedia but any media wiki compatible
wiki's on the public snapshots available
for download provided by key week's
project so that's some the base the
source of truth to that we pick the
years back for that and we added a thin
orchestration layer when we unpack those
theme files and put those unpacked
wiki's on ipfs with small changes such
as like fixing links making sure
relative linking works as expected
adding a footer on a page so for example
if we go to English wiki and go through
the very bottom you will see there's a
footer which showed description that
this is a snapshot made on the specific
date from those files and things like
that yep
so that's more or less where we are
right now and the problem is we had
lists of wikis right now it's in this
configuration the problem is those are
sort of out of date so I took some time
and made issue grooming and trashing and
filled some new issues closed old ones
and basically and I identified like the
first need is to just update those
snapshots but that's a sort of semi
manual process so I created issues for
updating specific mirrors like I believe
with English and Turkish and
like existing ones should be updated as
soon as possible however that's sort of
a time in the investment I'm to invest
first is to make sure the to update
those templates to ensure the process it
works because it's have not been reused
for some time and also we need to update
the script and that modify the page
content to reflect issues that we've
identified since then one like the main
one is to ensure the canonical link is
present on every page so we don't
pollute search indexes with duplicated
Wikipedia content and each page points
at canonical Wikipedia URL as their
preferred the URL and that collapses
search results another one is to like
ensure good footer is updated and things
like that so I believe the process of
going through those steps would be like
we probably want to do that on the
English Wikipedia manually we will drop
their smaller snapshot by let's say 100
the most popular pages on English
Wikipedia which is just a smaller file
and you can like run your scripts on
that so I believe that's something we
could do manually and then we would move
to when we make sure the manual process
works we should figure out a way to
automate the process so I like the way I
see it is there should be automation in
place that the text move snapshots like
make sure it's not too often but let's
say once a month or once a week and if
there's a new snapshot for one of our
supported wiki's it should automatically
build it put it on ipfs pin somewhere so
there's at least one source and then
open APR in the suite
so that's like the maintainer are able
to review it confirmed the Wikipedia's
not this new Wikipedia snapshot works as
expected
and then when we merge it the DNS link
would be updated so that's sort of like
a basic housekeeping to get project into
a place when it's sort of
self-sustaining and does not require too
much overhead but still keeps those
snapshots updated and that we uses the
current situation when we unpack theme
files a separate topic that we discussed
this week was to use Zim files directly
which is sort of interesting because the
Zim file itself is a special format just
one long file optimized for random
access and when we put that file on ipfs
we sort of split that file which is
already like has internal it's already
optimized for random access so we split
that huge file it can be like tens of
gigabytes we split that file put a build
balance tree and put it on ipfs and then
when someone wants to access specific
byte range from that file that needs to
be fed from ipfs we have API for
accessing specific by two inches of
files however I'm not sure what will
even if there is a performance impact
when you put the like one data structure
on top of IP FS which is sort of
separate data structure potential
problem I identified is with data
deduplication
so the Zeen file itself is just a flat
file but it has sections of content
which are compressed which means those
bytes are usually unique and those
compressed sections are not compressed
deterministically which means when you
have two snapshots of Wikipedia the same
content could be compressed with some
other content and prod
totally different bytes which defeats
the application that we get from putting
Wikipedia on ipfs because right now if
we create the new snapshot all the
existing images honestly like most of
them did not change so everyone who has
those old images in cache they
automatically are co-hosting those files
for new and future snapshots so that's
like an open problem but it's
interesting if we are able to put zim
files in ipfs and if it's like
performant enough what if we have xeam
reader in pure JavaScript that maybe not
requires maybe it's not reading over
HTTP but what if we have embedded J's
ipfs that just fetches specific byte
ranges of those theme files from my peer
files like directly so that's
interesting and we've got some feedback
from the qyx project that they have
actually they have JavaScript client
which sort of works in browser extension
so those are spaces we probably will
look at at some point after of course
like that the most pressing matter is
too just refresh those snaps that
snapshot in the old way however it's
pretty interesting if we are able to
create a Wikipedia snapshot which
there's like wicked input JavaScript
base reader on ipfs and put zinc piles
on ipfs so then we people could both
download those in files and open them in
offline Reader on their machine
however they actually if we have this
ipfs capable team reader publishing ipfs
we you actually just need web browser
and then that web browser would be able
to just fetch specific zip file from
ipfs specific parts of the same file so
you don't actually need me to just right
now like right now when you browse the
stupid Wikipedia you don't
and I think you just cache specific
pages on your local IKEA first note with
this you would be caching specific
ranges of zim files those files do not
update that often I've seen snapshots
been done like monthly or sometimes once
a quarter or something like that so
those are fairly stable on the network
when you you have multiple people
sitting them it's just an interesting
change of approach to look at or to
experiment with that's the update on
Wikipedia I'm not sure I probably
skipped some details but if you have any
questions yeah I looked at em it looks
like these snapshots are actually not
really generated very often like even
the newer snapshots are pretty old so
like I wonder if there's some way that
we could can we support key weeks like
who do we need to create our own
snapshots can we use their
infrastructure could we do something
they actually create more updated
snapshots very good really yes so that's
sort of like a snapshot of day would be
really huge improvement to what they
have going on there yeah so right now I
believe the key week's project they just
have their own infrastructure that
builds those especially English
Wikipedia is huge it even without videos
it's over 60 gigabytes or something like
that yeah it doesn't file but like
generating it probably takes some
resources yeah I mean can we give them a
grant or something like can we like it
I'd love to explore maybe finding ways
that instead of taking people like you
off the core implementation how can we
help accelerate things I love the idea
of just automating it too and I think
there's probably a lot of other people
that would love to be able to see this
working there's a way we can move the
bigger whole space forward yeah I
believe in the issue when we discuss
reading the same theme files directly I
sort of mentioned that the very very
first step would be to just
right now the cubix project is providing
those zoom snapshots for free for
everyone over HTTP and over BitTorrent
like the most obvious the first step
would be to just add the same data to
ipfs like go a gif as supports above
file store when you can add a pointer to
existing file without duplicating data
in your repo or I believe it was added
for Internet Archive or some other
partner the URL store when you add URL
and it's sort of like fetch the ranges
are fetched on demand when someone
requests requests those specific ranges
so putting sim files on a TFS and like
exposing ipfs links next to me torrent
that would be probably the first step
and we totally should support them in
that and see if this experimentation
with like static who jeaious based only
that which is capable of fetching data
from my PFS it's interesting because
when sim files are already on ipfs that
would be like the obvious next step to
check yeah so that's more or less an
update I'll be trying to support it's
not sure how like personally I will be
able to invest time but I will be trying
to at least try out issues and answer
questions and in spare time push the
regenerating those snapshot they'll do
it yeah I mean let's be honest your
spare spare spare spare spare tire yep I
think for jumping on it I saw that when
the wikipedia DDMS it last week and I
was like surely we should be set up for
this and no we're obviously not
interesting fact we did not have a en
Wikipedia on ipfs that org for some
reason we had at our Turkish Wikipedia
India nestling but we had not English so
that's fixed now it seems eminently
within our our capabilities and reach
and to cab the set up and I think that
would be something that is it would be
such a powerful statement around both
the values of our organization and of
the capabilities of our technology is if
we had this automated and setup and and
was supporting making Wikipedia
available and less prone to this type of
attack which is probably only happened
more and more I actually like it so
moving to the next agenda item I'm like
I would love to see some of the like
things like this as okay ours to be
forcing functions on our use it on us
dogfooding and using our own
technologies to do things in ways that
have really positive side effects and
that's more that's a reason when I sort
of jumped in on the Wikipedia cuz it's
honestly the best test case I have right
now when I want to test browsing
websites in Drey or IP has companion or
things like that because it has
everything it there's a DNS link it has
it's so big that it does not fit in a
single directory so you have ham
charting it has non ASCII characters in
paths there are various edge cases that
we've identified so it's very important
test case if like with Wikipedia works
most of stuff work and we we totally
should do our best to make sure it's
useful apart from just being proof of
concept yeah so a segue that's like
that's a great segue into the Internet
and next agenda item which is what what
are the things that we want to do in q4
we have things around brave for q3 and I
suspect those will still be ongoing
yeah probably it's neverending story
however like the okiya Kentucky are to
have to brave browsers to see each other
and be able to exchange files that
should land like local discovery works
right now down the missing piece is like
expose port and like announce port for
others but I have an idea
Alan experimented with that around
Leedy web project last year and he
stumbled on the similar block I'm
struggling right now so I'll probably
reuse his notes yeah the next steps
generally like in web browsers when we
look at Jess ipfs the most painful
things right now it's the lack of DHT
which is sort of kinda on the lip p2p
side however we are the main consumers
and generally at the problem of peer and
content discovery all the old issue of
sunsetting WebSocket star servers and
moving to relay circuit relay based
future which is also mostly only p2p
side but we are still them we needed
more more more than other b2b users are
doing I mean just a it would that be
something like a in a J asleep PDP
quarter like what if we spent a quarter
just focusing on those on those two
issues or even just one of those issues
because some DHT and sunsetting web
second star like is it been things that
have been around for a long time like it
wouldn't even be possible to say let's
dedicate a quarter to that and and
actually get it done yeah yeah I
I don't see any other way we need to
tackle it either right
another way would be to just like figure
out are there other ways of doing
content and pure discovery in web
browser are there existing like services
or standards or api's available for web
browsers that we did not think about
that we could create a little bit oopy
discovery module for maybe perhaps yeah
is there other is there any prior work
or thought around that are you just blue
skying here like should we explore
laying waste and start from scratch
tabula rasa or is there like some
previous investigations and threads we
could pull on yeah
prior things are where like web RTC as a
sort of improvement on top of WebSockets
because you just use it for signal link
and not like you there's web Bluetooth
which is like I think it's just in
chrome and it's still like a region
trial or something but it's I'm pretty
sure it's just extensions only to you
right oh no I think it's available to
web sites or song queues I flew the
header for Argentina trial so then
chrome ads exposes this IP at those API
so we know object another thing like
fringe stuff like audio using some
frequency signaling so the website
requires access to your microphone or
something yeah I already experimenting
be interesting to look at what the use
cases are that would drive those types
of discovery mechanisms like Hong Kong
is the great example concerts like
places where you have a lot of people in
one place really dense urban areas where
that type of physical
ago signaling and discovery would be
yeah really interesting we've been
thinking about reusing BLS for our
purposes however that's like the problem
with DNS is that is super easy to block
yeah every time we fall back to that we
fall back to the existing conditions
where we know it's it's that's that's
the first maybe the first trying to fall
in the fall back yeah thing is that we
have this built in into like ipfs you
can have multiple discovery methods and
they can fall back or random RL and
that's always like a best-effort yeah so
relays DHD I mean you said is that
really they're like if we get well we
can fix or solve discovery career
discovery and content discovery yeah I
believe that's the maybe I'm biased
because that's the biggest problem for
what I do right now but I believe like
looking at forums so and people
especially people who just started
working with Jess at the FS or I give
that they want to other ipfs to the page
and they just to add something and gets
the ID and save that CID in their
database of their app or whatever but
just collapse data to this ad and then
they just add it locally and they try to
load it from the public gateway and
that's the moment that it just does not
work or work so so that's there are two
pieces of that puzzle one is the
situation at the gateway and people
using our like our gateway on ipfs io
another thing is generally like the way
embedded J's ipfs on regular website
does this discovery is limited to
honestly just like WebSockets tar and
being connected to bootstrap nodes in
the past
it works perfectly fine because those
good strap notes wear the same go ipfs
instances that provide that HTTP
responses on our public gateway so
actually every JSA PFS was connected to
the Gateway
so the Gateway immediately had a
connection to the nodes that had data so
it worked
but that is not scale so we detached
bootstrap notes from our like gateway
cluster and then it's not like
one-to-one it's like yeah one hopped and
that's the problem we just asked gears
that we are connected directly and if
there are connected to appear that has
data yeah but I mean I think that's a at
that point you're talking about DHT
algorithm or like we're not like that's
a that's either if that is not a
solvable problem then then let p2p as a
whole is not tenable as a solution to
this at all right like that it is
designed for exactly that one thing that
you just described know is its low
purpose of existing yes yes the moment
we stopped started to rely on DHT those
embedded gpfs nodes were in trouble
because actually there's no DHT in J's
ipfs that's why we have delegated
routing and relay nodes and
bootstrappers and yeah I mean like I
play with it it's it's there but it's
like copying CPU for some reason so it
needs it's it's not ready yet
ok so turn to reel it back in what is
the what would it what is it would be a
a big a big chunk I'd you know we've had
the last couple of quarters since I've
been here I feel like we've got a few
different things we've got our hands
this and this and this business and I
would love to be able to maybe instead
collapse and coalesce our attention into
whatever we think that biggest blocker
is and take a quarter push on that and
remove some of these you know long long
standing things that that block our
progress
we're gonna have there within web
browsers on site we can half that let's
have a plan in hand better idea I think
that from what the project operations
meeting we talked about the Oh care is
next Dorothy ours we're gonna start
doing next week or the week after next I
think
week after next is when we're in the
same room together yeah I think so
probably I think it was like that by the
next end of the next week we should have
maybe a draft or a set of eyebrows but
it's usually just one yeah and and
that's just browser land and I don't
have the right people here we don't have
a hawk here to talk about desktop stuff
but from the from the from the desktop
and GUI it around ensuring stability and
performance and keeping up to date with
the new release process and making sure
that everything is still compatible
working with each new releases now that
Rana cadence released becomes more
important to be able to have things like
regression detection so I think like
what am I wonder my suggestions there in
that area was gonna be around looking at
the test matrix again figuring out what
the best high value regression detection
and CI combo that we could have to be
able to make sure that even if we're not
actively building a bunch of stuff into
desktop and GUI that it's tested daily
against JSF EFS and go ipfs and to make
sure that everything is still functional
even if we're down to texting detecting
our regressions we'd be detecting
there's sorry I said I believe like from
a pragmatic point of view Before we jump
into like fixing the HTM discovery we
should ensure that we don't spend time
on fixing regressions so my vote would
be on the testing matrix okay so instead
of even instead of attacking things like
the brow funk functional function the
functionality of functioning of ipfs in
the browser instead just put on the
brakes and spend the quarter clear
checking all the boxes and that matrix
that sounds like something we need to to
move forward anyway yeah anyway two
steps back yeah cuz like if you want you
need ideas I have like a long list on
the project for our week I started like
dropping like topics that we can discuss
like I I would not even like go through
the list and fit it in the very very
dropping oh yeah I'm dropping those into
the column on the project in project one
in back web browsers we don't get it so
general but those are like things I want
to try ash with you and you go and we
see when we meet just to decide are
those things that we should arc discuss
or maybe spring yeah I in fact I think
let's do that before at all I'll put 30
minutes on the calendar and let's go
over those things and do that triage
before we get together yeah then we get
together we can be as we can we can do
the things instead of talking about
doing things cool thanks for creating
this board I'm still like github project
boards it's like they're not as easy as
gel boards but uh but they are also not
another senator sir
then Paul think when you highlight when
you hover your mouse on top of a cart
and press spacebar and it assigns you to
that like there's no what no whole thing
can you just yeah but I also do like the
fact that this has like a this is built
into the place that we already work I
did I was looking at some bots that do
automation around these types of things
too so you can pre-populate columns with
issues based on so when you're managing
different issues the columns autofill
it's like that there's some nice stuff
that you can do a lot of it is built on
actions separate to the board itself
these boards are pretty bare-bones okay
so it sounds that's that's an
interesting idea is to spend a quarter
especially since we have lab week during
the quarter and 2020 planning during the
quarter maybe maybe now to say better
approaches to list all of those kind of
stability and testing infrastructure
requirements that we would always love
to have but there's never a good time to
do the house also the holidays and q4 so
it's the trifecta of things that will be
pushing against our ability to dig deep
take a big bite out of a large technical
problem so maybe it's a good time to
think about cleaning and cleaning house
yeah all right I believe we are at the
end of our agenda this week
one more okay our thing I did I did list
Wikipedia down there and I would love to
be able to have if we could slide that
in today Oh cares I'd love to be able to
have that as a side effect of that
quarter two of you like especially since
you say it is such a good test case what
if we even integrate the Wikipedia stuff
into that see I as like a that is that
is part of what we test against it's
testing against a live Wikipedia
way to make sure that we're not breaking
stuff actually out in the wild on the
network yeah honestly we already are
using Wikipedia puffs in our tests all
right honestly yeah for testing things
like like special characters in paths
and the way you escape those okay
because like I thief as files are not
like URL paths but we sort of started to
be using similar conventions so that's
interesting problem space so yeah
Wikipedia is a part of our test suit
already hey Terry I think we have a
local an offline meeting coming up soon
right today no next week wow that was
scary not coming up like immediately yes
we do there's a guy um thank you person
I have lined up at the moment is a guy
who's focused on like what the internet
limitations are like four people on
native lands in the States so people so
that's I think maybe next Wednesday or
something like that but yeah and then on
the protocol side we just deal go left
about a couple weeks ago and now there's
a guy named Jill who joined us who's
also at Moxie um he was working on the
IBM project on the front end of it so
not I think I think he has less deep
knowledge about ipfs then Yoko did which
means that the two of us will need to
lean on some other people when we get to
the PRS that aren't about front-end code
but are instead about like okay we're
validating the ipfs stuff under the hood
or is it even possible to do this with
essence or add the p2p validation or
those kinds of things um we're going to
need some some volunteer helpers on some
of that the biggest like I'm not sure
how quickly I'll get to it but my
biggest next step is going
the camp content to figure out what's
most reusable as tutorial content so
it's part inventory and in part doing
the work to make it happen so at the
moment I'm working on the inventory side
of it but I definitely see some fast
connections one of the things that I
think would be cool would be to use that
this CID inspector thing that somebody
built I don't know if it was Allen who
built it or just showed it but right now
you can sometimes when the results is a
dag thing you can click a button that
says for you and I failed the Explorer
and I don't see why we couldn't do that
for any result that's a CID viewed in
the CID inspector we also want a
tutorial about the anatomy of a CID
which section on in Allen section and
then we could link from that tool back
into this tutorial about the anatomy of
the CID so there are a lot of things
that we could do but I'm just still
trying to find the time to go through
all the bits but I'm very open to help
with any of that I just so I just shared
a one of the one of the carrots that we
had the project Operations Group was too
was like communications plan and be able
to share out cam content and Jonathan
Victor spent a couple days helping out
putting together this master list of
just it's a sheet of just everything
that happened to camp and links to the
things and then links to whether or not
somebody like to already did a blog post
about it or already shared something
about it or and then Jonathan is
actually going to move all of this we
talked with Zack yesterday and Zack has
an air table of all the video stuff and
we are talking about using that as the
single source of truth for all of this
content so Jonathan's gonna migrate the
contents of the sheet into Zacks air
table and then insects air table you
will have a single database that has all
of the stuff not just camp related but
being able to search by topic be able to
search for a keyword you want to find
all CID related stuff be able to find
links to it all there
I haven't used your table before but
that conceptually that sounds great and
I've been going through and trying to
make some tweaks to the camp readme as
you've been helping with to make stuff
more obvious where thanks for doing that
yeah I'm like I don't see I clearly have
an idiot yeah so and then we'll need to
add the video thanks but the other place
that like one of the things that we can
do very easily is now that we have those
resources pages at the end of each
tutorial stuff that's related but either
we haven't had time to shove it into
proto school or never format correctly
we can be leaking out to those resources
more yes already so there there will be
many ways to do it well so that'll be I
think one of our biggest things for q4
whatever we don't get to in the next few
weeks before I head off to uh fly camp
um and then I'm sure we'll have plenty
of you extra so so yeah cool sad sad do
go but new faces you folks may set we're
gonna meet all of Moxie sooner or later
Sunday someday he'll rotate through all
right I do like the idea that in theory
Jill could go tap you go on the shoulder
when I'm not awake yet what's with this
thing dude what did you do whether he's
actually gonna do it I don't know it's
fun to think about that yeah I think
this is my last meeting for the date did
we just fit into 45 minutes only if you
hang up real quick I'll stop recording
and let's pretend that's it bye